[lldb][cmake] Set `CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT` when building debugserver with CMake 4 (#138020)
llvm/llvm-project: lldb/tools/debugserver/source/CMakeLists.txt

add_definitions(-DLLDB_USE_OS_LOG)

if(CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT)

>   set(${MIG_SYSROOT} CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT)

Reviewer: Shouldn't this be `set(MIG_SYSROOT ${CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT})`? Does this work as-is?

Author: Good catch, this doesn't work as-is. I'll update to correct this.

add_definitions(-DLLDB_USE_OS_LOG)

if(NOT CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT)
  execute_process(COMMAND xcodebuild -version -sdk macosx Path
    OUTPUT_VARIABLE SDKROOT
    ERROR_QUIET
    OUTPUT_STRIP_TRAILING_WHITESPACE)

  if(NOT EXISTS ${SDKROOT})
    message(FATAL_ERROR "Unable to obtain macOS SDK root, debugserver cannot be built.")
  endif()

  message(STATUS "Using macOS SDK root: ${SDKROOT}")
  set(CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT ${SDKROOT})

> endif()

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should try to compute `CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT` ourselves. If we need an `-isysroot` for the `mig` invocation, it's fine to compute it, but we shouldn't reuse `CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT` for that. The [documentation](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT.html) before the `project()` call.

Here's what I think we should do instead:

```
if (CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT)
  set(MIG_SYSROOT ${CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT})
else() 
  # Set the sysroot based on the output of `xcrun --show-sdk-path`
endif()
```

And then the mig invocation should use `${MIG_SYSROOT}` instead of `${CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT}`.

`xcrun` is the usual way to get the SDK path and by not specifying the SDK, it will honor the usual ways of changing the SDK (which matters to us internally).

Author: > The [documentation](https://cmake.org/cmake/help/latest/variable/CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT.html) also says that it should be set before the project()

Ah, I wasn't aware of that. In that case then I can update this to use a local variable instead of messing with the CMake variable itself.

Though I do also have a question. If CMake no longer computer this value and we're not computing it ourselves, is this now Clang's responsibility? The CMake 4 release notes note that `Instead, compilers are expected to choose a default macOS SDK on their own` so I guess it is?

Either way, we can get the path we need from `xcrun` as you said.

add_definitions(-DLLDB_USE_OS_LOG)

# Make sure we have the macOS SDK root as mig needs it and will silently
# fail to generate its output files without it.
if(CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT)
  set(MIG_SYSROOT ${CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT})
else()
  execute_process(COMMAND xcrun --show-sdk-path
    OUTPUT_VARIABLE MIG_SYSROOT
    ERROR_QUIET
    OUTPUT_STRIP_TRAILING_WHITESPACE)
endif()

if(NOT MIG_SYSROOT)

>   message(FATAL_ERROR "Unable to obtain macOS SDK root, debugserver cannot be built.")

Reviewer 2: Let's make this more specific and actionable. 
```suggestion
  message(FATAL_ERROR "Unable to obtain sysroot required by mig (Mach Interface Generator). Set CMAKE_OSX_SYSROOT to explicitly specify a sysroot.")
```
